tar -c initrd/ > initrd.tar && bzip2 -z --best initrd.tar

http://www.bzip.org
bzip2(1)
version 1.0.4

SYNOPSIS
bzip2 [ OPTIONS ] [ filenames ...  ]
bzip2recover filename


DESCRIPTION
bzip2 compresses files using the Burrows-Wheeler block sorting text compression algorithm, and Huffman coding.

Each file is replaced by a compressed version of itself, with the name "original_name.bz2".
Each compressed file has the same modification date, permissions, and, when possible, ownership as the corresponding original, so that these properties can be correctly restored at decompression time.

bzip2 and bunzip2 will by default not overwrite existing files.  If you want this to happen, specify the -f flag.

If no file names are specified, bzip2 compresses from standard input to standard output.

bzip2 -d filename.bz2
decompresses specified file.
no filenames causes decompression from standard input to standard output.

Return values: 0 for a normal exit, 1 for environmental problems (file not found, invalid flags, I/O errors, &c), 2 to indicate a corrupt compressed file, 3 for an internal consistency error (eg, bug) which caused bzip2 to panic.


OPTIONS
-c --stdout
       Compress or decompress to standard output.

-d --decompress

-z --compress

-t --test
       Check integrity of the specified file(s), but don't decompress them.

-f --force
       Force overwrite of output files.  Normally, bzip2 will not overwrite existing output files.

-k --keep
       Keep (don't delete) input files during compression or decompression.

-q --quiet
       Suppress non-essential warning messages.

-v --verbose
       Further -v's increase the verbosity level.

-1 (or --fast) to -9 (or --best)
       Set the block size to 100 k, 200 k ..  900 k when compressing.


MEMORY MANAGEMENT
bzip2 compresses large files in blocks.  The block size affects both the compression ratio achieved, and the amount of memory needed for compression and decompression.  The flags -1 through -9 specify the block size to be 100,000 bytes through 900,000 bytes (the default) respectively.

RECOVERING DATA FROM DAMAGED FILES
bzip2recover is a simple program whose purpose is to search for blocks in .bz2 files, and write each block out into its own .bz2 file.  You can then use bzip2 -t to test the integrity of the resulting files, and decompress those which are undamaged.

bzip2recover takes a single argument, the name of the damaged file, and writes a number of files "rec00001file.bz2", "rec00002file.bz2", etc, containing the  extracted  blocks.  The  output  filenames  are  designed  so  that the use of wildcards in subsequent processing -- for example, "bzip2 -dc  rec*file.bz2 > recovered_data" -- processes the files in the correct order.

a damaged  block  cannot  be recovered.

