initctl(8)

SYNOPSIS
initctl [OPTION]... COMMAND [OPTION]... ARG...

DESCRIPTION
initctl allows a system administrator to communication with the init(8) daemon and perform various actions depending on COMMAND.

OPTIONS
--show-ids
   This option causes all commands to output id of jobs and events, in addition to their name.
   Ex.: sudo initctl list --show-ids

--by-id
   accept the job id as argument
   Applies to the start, stop and status commands.

--no-wait
   Return without waiting jobs or events to be started, stopped or finished.
   Applies to the start, stop and emit commands.

--quiet
   Reduces output of all commands to errors only.

COMMANDS
start JOB...
   Requests that the named jobs be started.
   Ex.: sudo initctl start tty2
   Veja os jobs em /etc/event.d/

stop JOB...
   Requests that the named jobs be stopped. The status of the jobs will be output to standard output until they are successfully stopped.
   When called without an instance job, all instances will be stopped.
   Ex.: sudo initctl stop tty2

status JOB...
   Requests the status of the named jobs.
   Ex.: sudo initctl status tty6 tty1

list [PATTERN]
   Requests a list of the known jobs and their statuses.
   PATTERN may contain the usual shell wildcard and glob characters, if omitted all known jobs are returned.
   Ex.: sudo initctl list 'tt*'

emit EVENT
   Requests that the named event be emitted, potentially causing jobs to be started and stopped.
   The event information is  output  once  handling begins followed by each job status changed caused by the event until handling is finished.

     fstab-device-added hda1
         FSTAB_FSNAME=/dev/hda1
         FSTAB_DIR=/
         FSTAB_TYPE=ext3
         FSTAB_OPTS=default

   The  event  name  is  given first followed by each argument to the event separated by a space.
   Consecutive lines are indented and give the environment variables passed to any job changed by the event.

jobs
   Requests notification of all job state changes be sent to the process, which remains in the foreground until terminated.

events
   Requests notification of all generated events be sent to the process, which remains in the foreground until terminated.

version
   Requests and outputs the version of the running init daemon.

log-priority PRIORITY
   Changes the minimum priority of messages logged by the init daemon.
   PRIORITY may be one of debug, info, message, warn, error or fatal.

Upstart
March 2007

