
Data Flow Types

Data directed from the host to a device is called downstream or OUT transfer.
The other direction is called upstream or IN transfer.

    * Control transfers are used to request and send reliable short data packets. It is used to configure devices and every one is required to support a minimum set of control commands. Here is a list of standard commands:
          o GET_STATUS
          o CLEAR_FEATURE
          o SET_FEATURE
          o SET_ADDRESS
          o GET_DESCRIPTOR
          o SET_DESCRIPTOR
          o GET_CONFIGURATION
          o SET_CONFIGURATION
          o GET_INTERFACE
          o SET_INTERFACE
          o SYNCH_FRAME

      Further control commands can be used to transfer vendor specific data.


    * Bulk transfers are used to request or send reliable data packets up to the full bus bandwidth. Devices like scanners or scsi adapters use this transfer type.

    * Interrupt transfers are similar to bulk transfers which are polled periodically. If an interrupt transfer was submitted the host controller driver will automatically repeat this request in a specified interval (1ms - 255ms).

    * Isochronous transfers send or receive data streams in realtime with guaranteed bus bandwidth but without any reliability. In general these transfer types are used for audio and video devices.


Bulk transfers
If an OUT endpoint is defined as using Bulk transfers, then the host will transfer data to it using OUT transactions.
If an IN endpoint is defined as using Bulk transfers, then the host will transfer data from it using IN transactions.
The max packet size is 8, 16, 32 or 64 at full Speed and 512 for high speed. Bulk transfers are not allowed at low speed.

Interrupt
packets can have any size from 1 to 8 bytes at low speed, from 1 to 64 at full speed or up to 1024 bytes at high speed.

isochronous transfer
there is no handshake packet at the end.
An isochronous packet may contain up to 1023 bytes at full speed, or up to 1024 at high speed. Isochronous transfers are not allowed at low speed.

Control Transfer
is divided into three stages.
SETUP stage carries 8 bytes called the Setup packet. This defines the request, and specifies whether and how much data should be transferred in the DATA stage.
DATA stage is optional. If present, it always starts with a transaction containing a DATA1. The type of transaction then alternates between DATA0 and DATA1 until all the required data has been transferred.
STATUS stage is a transaction containing a zero-length DATA1 packet. If the DATA stage was IN then the STATUS stage is OUT, and vice versa.
Control transfers are used for initial configuration of the device by the host, using Endpoint 0 OUT and Endpoint 0 IN, which are reserved for this purpose.
The max packet size for the data stage is 8 bytes at low speed, 8, 16, 32 or 64 at full Speed and 64 for high speed.

