Keep code and data on separate pages.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 1. (MH impact, M generality) Arrange code
to make basic blocks contiguous and eliminate unnecessary branches.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 2. (M impact, ML generality) Use the SETCC
and CMOV instructions to eliminate unpredictable conditional branches where
possible. Do not do this for predictable branches.

   Use the CMOV instruction.
   Use the SETCC instruction.

X = (A < B) ? CONST1 : CONST2;

Example 3-1. Assembly Code with an Unpredictable Branch
cmp a, b
jbe L30
mov ebx const1
jmp L31
L30:
mov ebx, const2
L31:
; Condition
; Conditional branch
; ebx holds X
; Unconditional branch


Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 4. (MH impact, MH generality) Near calls
must be matched with near returns, and far calls must be matched with far returns.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 7. (ML impact, ML generality) If there are
more than 16 nested calls and returns in rapid succession; consider transforming
the program with inline to reduce the call depth.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 9. (L impact, L generality) If the last
statement in a function is a call to another function, consider converting the call to
a jump. This will save the call/return overhead as well as an entry in the return
stack buffer.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 10. (M impact, L generality) Do not put
more than four branches in a 16-byte chunk.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 11. (M impact, L generality) Do not put
more than two end loop branches in a 16-byte chunk.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 12. (M impact, H generality) All branch
targets should be 16-byte aligned.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 13. (M impact, H generality) If the body of a
conditional is not likely to be executed, it should be placed in another part of the
program. If it is highly unlikely to be executed and code locality is an issue, it
should be placed on a different code page.


Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 15. (H impact, M generality) Unroll small
loops until the overhead of the branch and induction variable accounts (generally)
for less than 10% of the execution time of the loop.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 16. (H impact, M generality) Avoid unrolling
loops excessively; this may thrash the trace cache or instruction cache.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 17. (M impact, M generality) Unroll loops
that are frequently executed and have a predictable number of iterations to reduce
the number of iterations to 16 or fewer. Do this unless it increases code size so that
the working set no longer fits in the trace or instruction cache. If the loop body
contains more than one conditional branch, then unroll so that the number of
iterations is 16/(# conditional branches).

Example 3-2. Code Optimization to Eliminate Branches
xor ebx, ebx
cmp A, B
setge bl
; Clear ebx (X in the C code)
; When ebx = 0 or 1
; OR the complement condition
sub ebx, 1
; ebx=11...11 or 00...00
and ebx, CONST3; CONST3 = CONST1-CONST2
add ebx, CONST2; ebx=CONST1 or CONST2



Example 3-3. Eliminating Branch with CMOV Instruction
test ecx, ecx
jne 1H
mov eax, ebx
1H:

; To optimize code, combine jne and mov into one cmovcc instruction that checks the equal flag
test ecx, ecx
; Test the flags
cmoveq eax, ebx
; If the equal flag is set, move
; ebx to eax- the 1H: tag no longer needed



Before unrolling:
do i = 1, 100
if ( i mod 2 == 0 ) then a( i ) = x
else a( i ) = y
enddo

After unrolling
do i = 1, 100, 2
a( i ) = y
a( i+1 ) = x
enddo


Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 18. (ML impact, M generality) For improving
fetch/decode throughput, Give preference to memory flavor of an instruction over
the register-only flavor of the same instruction, if such instruction can benefit from
micro-fusion.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 19. (M impact, ML generality) Employ
macro-fusion where possible using instruction pairs that support macro-fusion.
Prefer TEST over CMP if possible. Use unsigned variables and unsigned jumps when
possible. Try to logically verify that a variable is non-negative at the time of
comparison. Avoid CMP or TEST of MEM-IMM flavor when possible.



//if (a == 0)
cmp a, 0
jne lbl
...
lbl: 

//best
test a, a
jne lbl
...
lbl:

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 31. (ML impact, M generality) Avoid using
complex instructions (for example, enter, leave, or loop) that have more than four
μops and require multiple cycles to decode. Use sequences of simple instructions
instead.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 32. (M impact, H generality) INC and DEC
instructions should be replaced with ADD or SUB instructions, because ADD and
SUB overwrite all flags, whereas INC and DEC do not, therefore creating false
dependencies on earlier instructions that set the flags.


Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 33. (ML impact, L generality) If an LEA
instruction using the scaled index is on the critical path, a sequence with ADDs may
be better.

Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 34. (ML impact, L generality) Avoid ROTATE
by register or ROTATE by immediate instructions. If possible, replace with a
ROTATE by 1 instruction.


Assembly/Compiler Coding Rule 35. (M impact, ML generality)
In contexts where the
condition codes must be preserved, move 0 into the register instead. This requires
more code space than using XOR and SUB, but avoids setting the condition codes.


