
HOST DISCOVERY
       -sL (List Scan) apenas obtem o hostname de cada IP

       -sP (Ping Scan) nmap default
           sends an ICMP echo request and a TCP ACK packet to port 80 by default. When executed by an unprivileged user, only a
           SYN packet is sent to port 80 on the target.
           When a privileged user tries to scan targets on a local ethernet
           network, ARP requests are used unless --send-ip was specified.

       -PN (No ping)
           Nmap only performs port scans, version detection, or OS detection against hosts that are
           found to be up. Disabling host discovery with -PN causes Nmap to
           attempt the requested scanning functions against every target IP
           address specified. For machines on a local ethernet network, ARP scanning will
           still be performed (unless --send-ip is specified) because Nmap
           needs MAC addresses to further scan target hosts.

       -PS portlist (TCP SYN Ping)
           This option sends an empty TCP packet with the SYN flag set. The default destination port is 80
           Alternate ports can be specified as a parameter. Examples are -PS22 and -PS22-25,80,113,1050,35000.

       -PA portlist (TCP ACK Ping)
           an ACK packet purports to be
           acknowledging data over an established TCP connection, but no such
           connection exists. So remote hosts should always respond with a RST
           packet, disclosing their existence in the process.

           The -PA option uses the same default port as the SYN probe (80) and
           can also take a list of destination ports in the same format.

       -PU portlist (UDP Ping)
           sends an empty (unless --data-length is specified) UDP packet to the given ports.
           If no ports are specified, the default is 31338.

       -PE; -PP; -PM (ICMP Ping Types)
           PE echo request
           The ICMP standard (RFC 792[2]) also specifies timestamp
           request, information request, and address mask request packets as
           codes 13, 15, and 17, respectively. Timestamp and address mask queries can be sent with the -PP and -PM
           options, respectively. A timestamp reply (ICMP code 14) or address
           mask reply (code 18) discloses that the host is available.

       -PO protolist (IP Protocol Ping)
           The newest host discovery option is the IP protocol ping, which
           sends IP packets with the specified protocol number set in their IP
           header. If no
           protocols are specified, the default is to send multiple IP packets
           for ICMP (protocol 1), IGMP (protocol 2), and IP-in-IP (protocol
           4). Note that for
           the ICMP, IGMP, TCP (protocol 6), and UDP (protocol 17), the
           packets are sent with the proper protocol headers while other
           protocols are sent with no additional data beyond the IP header
           (unless the --data-length option is specified).

       -PR (ARP Ping)
           private address ranges specified by RFC 1918[3].
           If you absolutely don't want to do an ARP scan for local network, specify --send-ip.

       --traceroute (Trace path to host)
           Traceroute works by sending packets with a low TTL (time-to-live)
           in an attempt to elicit ICMP Time Exceeded messages from
           intermediate hops between the scanner and the target host. Standard
           traceroute implementations start with a TTL of 1 and increment the
           TTL until the destination host is reached. Nmap's traceroute starts
           with a high TTL and then decrements the TTL until it reaches 0.

       -n (No DNS resolution)
           Tells Nmap to never do reverse DNS

       -R (DNS resolution for all targets)
           Tells Nmap to always do reverse DNS resolution on the target IP
           addresses. Normally reverse DNS is only performed against
           responsive (online) hosts.

       --dns-servers server1[,server2[,...]]  (Servers to use for reverse DNS queries)
           By default, Nmap determines your DNS servers (for rDNS resolution) from your resolv.conf file.
           Alternatively, you may use this option to specify alternate
           servers.

