
PORT SCANNING BASICS
       The six port states recognized by Nmap:
       open
           An application is actively accepting TCP connections or UDP packets on this port.

       closed
           A closed port is accessible (it receives and responds to Nmap probe
           packets), but there is no application listening on it.

       filtered
           filtering prevents probes from reaching the port. The filtering
           could be from a firewall or router rules. Sometimes they respond
           with ICMP error messages such as type 3 code 13 (destination unreachable), but
           filters that simply drop probes without responding are far more common. This forces Nmap to retry several times just in case the
           probe was dropped due to network congestion rather than filtering.
           This slows down the scan dramatically.

       unfiltered
           The unfiltered state means that a port is accessible, but Nmap is
           unable to determine whether it is open or closed. Only the ACK
           scan, which is used to map firewall rulesets, classifies ports into
           this state. Scanning unfiltered ports with other scan types such as
           Window scan, SYN scan, or FIN scan, may help resolve whether the
           port is open.

       open|filtered
           Nmap places ports in this state when it is unable to determine
           whether a port is open or filtered. This occurs for scan types in
           which open ports give no response.

       closed|filtered
           This state is used when Nmap is unable to determine whether a port
           is closed or filtered. It is only used for the IP ID idle scan.

PORT SCANNING TECHNIQUES
       port scan techniques. Only one method may be used at a time.
       -sS (TCP SYN scan)
           the default and most popular scan option.

           send a SYN packet, and wait for a response. A SYN/ACK indicates the port is listening (open), while a
           RST (reset) is indicative of a non-listener. If no response is
           received after several retransmissions, the port is marked as
           filtered. The port is also marked filtered if an ICMP unreachable
           error (type 3, code 1,2, 3, 9, 10, or 13) is received.

       -sT (TCP connect scan)

       -sU (UDP scans)
           send an empty (no data) UDP header to every
           targeted port. If an ICMP port unreachable error (type 3, code 3)
           is returned, the port is closed. Other ICMP unreachable errors
           (type 3, codes 1, 2, 9, 10, or 13) mark the port as filtered.
           Occasionally, a service will respond with a UDP packet, proving
           that it is open. If no response is received after retransmissions,
           the port is classified as open|filtered.

           Closed ports are often an even bigger problem. They
           usually send back an ICMP port unreachable error. the Linux 2.4.20 kernel limits destination unreachable
           messages to one per second (in net/ipv4/icmp.c).

       -sN; -sF; -sX (TCP NULL, FIN, and Xmas scans)
           Page 65 of RFC 793 says that "if the [destination] port state is CLOSED
           .... an incoming segment not containing a RST causes a RST to be sent in response."

           Null scan (-sN)
               Does not set any bits (TCP flag header is 0)

           FIN scan (-sF)
               Sets just the TCP FIN bit.

           Xmas scan (-sX)
               Sets the FIN, PSH, and URG flags.

           If a RST packet is received,
           the port is considered closed, while no response means it is
           open|filtered. The port is marked filtered if an ICMP unreachable
           error (type 3, code 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, or 13) is received.

       -sA (TCP ACK scan)
           never determines open (or even open|filtered) ports. It is used to
           map out firewall rulesets, determining whether they are stateful or
           not and which ports are filtered.

           The ACK scan probe packet has only the ACK flag set (unless you use
           --scanflags). When scanning unfiltered systems, open and closed
           ports will both return a RST packet. Nmap then labels them as
           unfiltered. Ports that don't
           respond, or send certain ICMP error messages back (type 3, code 1,
           2, 3, 9, 10, or 13), are labeled filtered.

       -sW (TCP Window scan)
           Window scan is exactly the same as ACK scan except that it exploits
           an implementation detail of certain systems to differentiate open
           ports from closed ones, rather than always printing unfiltered when
           a RST is returned. It does this by examining the TCP Window field
           of the RST packets returned. On some systems, open ports use a
           positive window size (even for RST packets) while closed ones have
           a zero window. So instead of always listing a port as unfiltered
           when it receives a RST back, Window scan lists the port as open or
           closed if the TCP Window value in that reset is positive or zero,
           respectively.

       --scanflags (Custom TCP scan)
           allows you to design your own scan by specifying arbitrary TCP flags.
           argument can be a numerical flag value such as 9 (PSH and FIN), but using symbolic names is easier.
           Just mash together any combination of URG, ACK, PSH, RST, SYN, and FIN.
           For example, --scanflags URGACKPSHRSTSYNFIN sets everything. The order these are specified in is irrelevant.

           specify a TCP scan type (such as -sA or -sF). That base type tells Nmap how to
           interpret responses.
           For example, a SYN scan considers no-response to indicate a filtered port, while a FIN scan treats the same as
           open|filtered.

       -sO (IP protocol scan)
           This isn't
           technically a port scan, since it cycles through IP protocol
           numbers rather than TCP or UDP port numbers. Yet it still uses the
           -p option to select scanned protocol numbers, reports its results
           within the normal port table format.

PORT SPECIFICATION AND SCAN ORDER
       -p port ranges (Only scan specified ports)
           This option specifies which ports you want to scan and overrides
           the default. The beginning and/or end
           values of a range may be omitted, causing Nmap to use 1 and 65535,
           respectively. So you can specify -p- to scan ports from 1 through
           65535.
           When scanning both TCP and UDP ports, you can specify a particular
           protocol by preceding the port numbers by T: or U:. For example, the
           argument -p U:53,111,137,T:21-25,80,139,8080 would scan UDP ports
           53,111,and 137, as well as the listed TCP ports.

           You can even use the wildcards *
           -p ftp,http*. Be careful about shell expansions and quote the argument.

           Ranges of ports can be surrounded by square brackets. scan all ports equal to or
           below 1024: -p [-1024]. Be careful with shell expansions and quote the argument.

       -F (Fast (limited port) scan)
           only scan for ports listed in the nmap-services file. this list contains so many TCP ports (more than 1200).

       -r (Don't randomize ports)
           By default, Nmap randomizes the scanned port order

