
FIREWALL/IDS EVASION AND SPOOFING
       -f (fragment packets); --mtu (using the specified MTU)
           The idea is to split up the TCP header over several packets to make it harder for packet filters detect what you are doing.
           Nmap splits the packets into 8 bytes or less after the IP header. So a 20-byte TCP header would be split into 3 packets.
           Two with eight bytes of the TCP header, and one with the final four. Of course each fragment also has an IP header.
           you can specify your own offset size with the --mtu option. Don't also specify -f if you use --mtu. The offset
           must be a multiple of 8.
           capture some packets to ensure that sent packets are fragmented. If your host OS is causing problems, try the --send-eth option to bypass the IP layer and send raw ethernet frames.

       -D decoy1[,decoy2][,ME][,...] (Cloak a scan with decoys)
           Causes a decoy scan to be performed, which makes it appear to the
           remote host that the host(s) you specify as decoys are scanning the
           target network too. Thus their IDS might report 5-10 port scans
           from unique IP addresses, but they won't know which IP was scanning
           them and which were innocent decoys. While this can be defeated
           through router path tracing, response-dropping, and other active
           mechanisms, it is generally an effective technique for hiding your
           IP address.

           Separate each decoy host with commas, and you can optionally use ME
           as one of the decoys to represent the position for your real IP
           address. If you put ME in the sixth position or later, some common
           port scan detectors are unlikely to show your IP address at all. If you don't use ME,
           Nmap will put you in a random position. You can also use RND to generate a random, non-reserved IP address, or RND:number to
           generate number addresses.

           Note that the hosts you use as decoys should be up or you might
           accidentally SYN flood your targets.

       -S IP_Address (Spoof source address)
           IP address of the interface you wish to send packets through.

       -e interface (Use specified interface)
           Tells Nmap what interface to send and receive packets on.

       --source-port portnumber; -g portnumber (Spoof source port number)
           Windows XP contain an implicit rule that allows all TCP or UDP traffic from port 88.
           Zone Alarm 2.1.25 allow any incoming UDP packets with the source port 53 (DNS) or 67 (DHCP).

       --data-length number (Append random data to sent packets)
           default is send only the headers

       --ip-options S|R [route]|L [route]|T|U ... ; --ip-options hex string
       (Send packets with specified ip options)
           The IP protocol[9] offers several options which may be placed in
           packet headers. you may be able to use the record route option to
           determine a path to a target even when more traditional
           traceroute-style approaches fail. Or if your packets are being
           dropped by a certain firewall, you may be able to specify a
           different route with the strict or loose source routing options.

           The most powerful way to specify IP options is to simply pass in
           values as the argument to --ip-options. Precede each hex number
           with \x then the two digits. You may repeat certain characters by
           following them with an asterisk and then the number of times you
           wish them to repeat. For example, \x01\x07\x04\x00*36\x01 is a hex
           string containing 36 NUL bytes.

           Nmap also offers a shortcut mechanism for specifying options.
           Simply pass the letter R, T, or U to request record-route,
           record-timestamp, or both options together, respectively. Loose or
           strict source routing may be specified with an L or S followed by a
           space and then a space-separated list of IP addresses.

           If you wish to see the options in packets sent and received,
           specify --packet-trace.

       --ttl value (Set IP time-to-live field)
           Sets the IPv4 time-to-live field in sent packets to the given
           value.

