
     :

     true   A null command that returns a 0 (true) exit value.



     bg [job] ...
            Continue the specified jobs (or the current job if no jobs are
            given) in the background.
            crtl+z coloca o processo atual em background

     command [-p] [-v] [-V] command [arg ...]
            Execute the specified command but ignore shell functions when
            searching for it.  (This is useful when you have a shell function
            with the same name as a builtin command.)

            -p     search for command using a PATH that guarantees to find all
                   the standard utilities.

            -V     Do not execute the command but search for the command and
                   print the resolution of the command search.  This is the
                   same as the type builtin.

            -v     Do not execute the command but search for the command and
                   print the absolute pathname of utilities, the name for
                   builtins or the expansion of aliases.


     exec [command arg ...]
            Unless command is omitted, the shell process is replaced with the
            specified program (which must be a real program, not a shell
            builtin or function).  Any redirections on the exec command are
            marked as permanent, so that they are not undone when the exec
            command finishes.



     fc [-e editor] [first [last]]

     fc -l [-nr] [first [last]]

     fg [job]
            Move the specified job or the current job to the foreground.

                  cmd -a -carg -- file file

     hash -rv command ...
            The shell maintains a hash table which remembers the locations of
            commands.  With no arguments whatsoever, the hash command prints
            out the contents of this table.  Entries which have not been
            looked at since the last cd command are marked with an asterisk;
            it is possible for these entries to be invalid.

            With arguments, the hash command removes the specified commands
            from the hash table (unless they are functions) and then locates
            them.  With the -v option, hash prints the locations of the com-
            mands as it finds them.  The -r option causes the hash command to
            delete all the entries in the hash table except for functions.

     pwd [-LP]
            builtin command remembers what the current directory is rather
            than recomputing it each time.  This makes it faster.  However, if
            the current directory is renamed, the builtin version of pwd will
            continue to print the old name for the directory.  The -P option
            causes the physical value of the current working directory to be
            shown, that is, all symbolic links are resolved to their respec-
            tive values.  The -L option turns off the effect of any preceding
            -P options.


     readonly name ...

     readonly -p
            The specified names are marked as read only, so that they cannot
            be subsequently modified or unset.  The shell allows the value of
            a variable to be set at the same time it is marked read only by
            writing

                  readonly name=value

            With no arguments the readonly command lists the names of all read
            only variables.  With the -p option specified the output will be
            formatted suitably for non-interactive use.

     times  Print the accumulated user and system times for the shell and for
            processes run from the shell.  The return status is 0.


     type [name ...]
            Interpret each name as a command and print the resolution of the
            command search.  Possible resolutions are: shell keyword, alias,
            shell builtin, command, tracked alias and not found.  For aliases
            the alias expansion is printed; for commands and tracked aliases
            the complete pathname of the command is printed.

