
fc -s [old=new] [first]
The fc builtin lists, or edits and re-executes, commands previ-
ously entered to an interactive shell.

-e editor
       Use the editor named by editor to edit the commands.  The
       editor string is a command name, subject to search via the
       PATH variable.  The value in the FCEDIT variable is used as
       a default when -e is not specified.  If FCEDIT is null or
       unset, the value of the EDITOR variable is used.  If EDITOR
       is null or unset, ed(1) is used as the editor.

-l (ell)
       List the commands rather than invoking an editor on them.
       The commands are written in the sequence indicated by the
       first and last operands, as affected by -r, with each com-
       mand preceded by the command number.

-n     Suppress command numbers when listing with -l.

-r     Reverse the order of the commands listed (with -l) or
       edited (with neither -l nor -s).

-s     Re-execute the command without invoking an editor.

first

last   Select the commands to list or edit.  The number of previ-
       ous commands that can be accessed are determined by the
       value of the HISTSIZE variable.  The value of first or last
       or both are one of the following:

       [+]number
              A positive number representing a command number;
              command numbers can be displayed with the -l option.

       -number
              A negative decimal number representing the command
              that was executed number of commands previously.
              For example, -1 is the immediately previous command.

string
       A string indicating the most recently entered command that
       begins with that string.  If the old=new operand is not
       also specified with -s, the string form of the first
       operand cannot contain an embedded equal sign.

The following environment variables affect the execution of fc:

FCEDIT    Name of the editor to use.

HISTSIZE  The number of previous commands that are accessible.


