
getopts optstring var

The POSIX getopts command, not to be confused with the Bell Labs-derived getopt(1).

The first argument should be a series of letters, each of which may be optionally followed by a colon to indicate that the option requires an argument.  The variable specified is set to the parsed option.

The getopts command deprecates the older getopt(1) utility due to its handling of arguments containing whitespace.

The getopts builtin may be used to obtain options and their arguments from a list of parameters.  When invoked, getopts places the value of the next option from the option string in the list in the shell variable specified by var and its index in the shell variable OPTIND.  When the shell is invoked, OPTIND is initialized to
1.  For each option that requires an argument, the getopts builtin will place it in the shell variable OPTARG.  If an option is not allowed for in the optstring, then OPTARG will be unset.

optstring is a string of recognized option letters (see getopt(3)).  If a letter is followed by a colon, the option is expected to have an argument which may or may not be separated from it by white space.  If an option character is not found where expected, getopts will set the variable var to a "?"; getopts will then unset OPTARG and write output to standard error.  By specifying a colon as the first character of optstring all errors will be ignored.

A nonzero value is returned when the last option is reached.  If there are no remaining arguments, getopts will set var to the special option, "--", otherwise, it will set var to "?".

The following code fragment shows how one might process the arguments for a command that can take the options [a] and [b], and the option [c], which requires an argument.

while getopts abc: f
do
   case $f in
   a | b)  flag=$f;;
   c)      carg=$OPTARG;;
   \?)     echo $USAGE; exit 1;;
   esac
done
shift 'expr $OPTIND - 1'

This code will accept any of the following as equivalent:

cmd -acarg file file
cmd -a -c arg file file
cmd -carg -a file file

